[Music]
I like many of you and one of the two
billion people on earth who lived in
cities and there are days I don't know
about the rest of you guys but there are
days when I help up a palpably feel how
much I rely on other people for pretty
much everything in my life and some days
that can even be a little scary but what
I'm here to talk to you about today is
how that same inner dependence is
actually an extremely powerful social
infrastructure that we can actually
harness to so to help heal some of our
deepest Civic issues if we apply open
source collaboration a couple of years
ago I read an article by New York Times
writer Michael Pollan in which he argued
that growing even some of our own food
is one of the best things that we can do
for the environment now at the time that
I was reading this it was the middle of
the winter and I definitely did not have
room for a lot of dirt in my New York
City apartment so I was basically just
willing to settle for reading the next
Wired magazine and finding out how the
experts we're gonna figure out how to
solve all these problems for us in the
future but that was actually exactly the
point that Michael Pollan was making in
this article was it's precisely when we
hand over the responsibility for all of
these things to specialists that we
cause the kind of messes that we see
with the food system so I happen to know
a little bit from my own work about how
NASA has been using hydroponics to
explore growing food in space and that
you can actually get optimal nutritional
yield by running a kind of high-quality
liquid soil over plants root systems now
to a vegetable plant my apartment has
got to be about as foreign as outer
space but I can offer some natural light
and year-round climate control
fast-forward two years later we now have
window farms which are vertical
hydroponic platforms for food growing
indoors and the way it works is that
there's a pump at the bottom which
periodically sends some of this liquid
nutrient solution up to the top which
then trickles down through plants root
systems that are suspended in clay
pellets so there's no dirt involved now
light and temperature vary with each
Windows microclimate so a window farm
requires a farmer and she must decide
what kind of crops
she is gonna put in her window farm and
whether she's going to feed her food
organically back at the time a window
farm was no more than a technically
complex idea that was going to require a
lot of testing and I really wanted it to
be an open project because hydroponics
is one of the fastest growing areas of
patenting in the United States right now
and could possibly become another area
like Monsanto where we have a lot of
corporate intellectual property in the
way of people people's food so I decided
that instead of creating a product what
I was gonna do was open this up to a
whole bunch of co-developers the first
few systems that we created if it kind
of worked we were actually able to grow
about a salad a week in a typical New
York City apartment window and we were
able to grow cherry tomatoes and
cucumbers all kinds of stuff but the
first few systems were these leaky loud
power guzzlers that Martha Stewart would
definitely never have approved so to
bring on more co-developers what we did
was we created a social media site on
which we published the designs we
explained how they worked and we even
went so far as to point out everything
that was wrong with these systems and
then we invited people all over the
world to build them and experiment with
us so actually now on this Web site we
have 18,000 people and we have window
farms all over the world what we're
doing is what NASA or a large
corporation would call R&D or research
and development but what we call it is
our DIY or research and develop it
yourself
so for example Jackson came along and
suggested that we use air pumps instead
of water pumps it took building a whole
bunch of systems to get it right but
once we did we were able to cut our
carbon footprint nearly in half Tony and
Chicago has been taking on growing
experiments like lots of other window
farmers and he's been able to actually
get his strawberries to fruit for nine
months of the year in low light
conditions by simply changing out the
organic nutrients and window farmers in
Finland have been customizing their
window farms for the dark days of the
Finnish winters
by outfitting them with LED grow lights
that they are now making open-source and
part of the project so we know Farms
have been evolving through a rapid
versioning process similar to software
and with every open source project the
real benefit is the interplay between
the specific concerns of people
customizing their systems for their own
particular concerns and the universal
concerns so my core team and I are able
to concentrate on the improvements that
really benefit everyone and we're able
to look out for the needs of newcomers
so for do-it-yourselfers we provide free
very well tested instructions so that
anyone anywhere around the world can
build one of these systems for free and
there's a patent pending on these
systems as well that's held by the
community and to fund the project we
partner to create products that we then
sell to schools and to individuals who
don't have time to build their own
systems now within our community a
certain culture has appeared in our
culture it is better to be a tester who
supports someone else's idea than it is
to be just the idea guy what we get out
of this project is we get support for
our own work as well as an experience of
actually contributing to the
environmental movement in a way other
than just screwing in new light bulbs
but I think that Eilen expresses best
what we really get out of this which is
the actual joy of collaboration so she
expresses here what it's like to see
someone halfway across the world
having taken your idea built upon it and
then acknowledging you for contributing
if we really want to see the kind of
wide consumer behavior change that we're
all talking about as environmentalists
and and food people maybe we just need
to ditch the term consumer and get
behind the people who are doing stuff
open-source projects tend to have a
momentum of their own and what we're
seeing is that our DIY has moved beyond
just window farms and LEDs into solar
panels in aquaponic systems and we're
building upon innovations of generations
who went before us and we're looking
ahead at generations who really need us
to retool our lives now so we ask that
you join us in rediscovering the value
of citizens united and to declare that
we are all still pioneers
[Applause]
[Music]